#### How to build your go-to-market strategy
- Companies face challenges daily - competition, changing markets, finding and keeping new customers, as a result you might think they have marketing problem, sales problem or Customer success problem. What you have is go-to-market problem. It requires marketing, sales, and customer success to all be on same page and to know the answer to the question - What should we do next?
- Accelerating the revenue and scaling the business
- Some of the Companies are super successful, not beacuse they have an excellent product or strong brand. But, because they took time to build strong GTM teams. 


#### Navigating GTM as a process

- 5 million new businesses launch annually in US, and most of them never hit million dollar in revenue. Starting a business is easy but scaling a business is hard. It becomes increasingly difficult to cut through the noise and talk to audience directly. GTM is all about standing out and making your customer notice you.
- If you have trouble connecting with your customer, what you are facing is Go-To market problem.
- Solving it need to Create an iterative process to bring clarity, alignment and togetherness to your team.

###### Stages of a business
- Problem market fit: Have leads, but can't convert them to customers
  - Marketing and sales are not aligned, they are still learning. Each team is doing its own thing
- Product market fit: Customer acquisition is repeatable, but few renewals
- Platform market fit: Can retain customers, but struggling to increase wallet share

###### Clarity and Alignment
- Start with creating a target customer list
- Marketing, sales and customer success team must know "What stage of business", "what they are targeting" and "why they are targeting"

Eg: If you are selling marketing software to fortune 500 companies in the financial services industry. Create a target list in 3 easy steps:
1. View list of fortune 500 companies
2. Filter them with finnacial services companies
3. Share the list with teams

#### Who do you think owns GTM
- CEO of the company owns Go-To-Market
- CEO needs following 5 metrics:
  - Annual recurring revenue: How fast you are acquiring your new customers
  - Annual contract value: How much money customer is willing to pay annually
  - Gross retention rate: How many customer are renewing annually
  - Net revenue retention: how more products /services, customer is willing to pay for
  - Category Growth: How fast your company is growing compared to its competitors

#### GTM Questions: CEO would start asking these questions
- Where do we need to invest?
- How do we budget?
- When do we need to hire?

`
We treat GTM like a product and we track bugs and make improvements
`

## Defining your niche in B2B GTM
- "Small is the new big" When you start a business you may need to focus on specific area
  - TAM - Total Addressable market (100%)
  - TRM - Total Relevant market (0% - 10%)
- Focus on TRM instead of TAM
- When you narrow your focus and identify total relevant market, your niche is directly linked to stage of business you are in - as we talked about - Problem, product and platform market fit
  - Problem market fit: Find out if the problem you are fixing resonates with the market
  - Product market fit: Identify segment 

















